---
layout: post
title: The Bill Gates Energy Equation
---



The human influence on the global climate system is clear. This is, for instance, manifested through raising temperatures in the atmosphere and oceans, dimin- ishing amount of snow and ice in the pole areas and raising sea level. Climate change already has widespread impacts on humans and ecosystems. By further warming of the planet, the risk of severe irreversible and pervasive impacts in- creases. Therefore, climate change is a real threat to sustainable development of the human species on Earth.Climate change is caused by anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide. The concentrations of these gases in the atmosphere today are at least unprecedented during the last 800 000 years. Each year, the total amount of anthropogenic carbon dioxide equivalent emitted into the atmosphere is about 50 billion tons (IPCC 2014). The yearly amount of emitted carbon dioxide equivalent can be expressed using a version of the Kaya identity proposed by Gates (2010) according to

where P is the number of people on the planet, S is the services per person, E is the energy per service and C is the emissions of carbon dioxide equivalents per energy. According to IPCC (2014), substantial emission reductions over the course of the next few decades and near zero emissions by the end of the century are needed in order to likely limit global warming below 2 ◦C relative to pre-industrial levels. This means that at least one of the four quantities in equation (1.1) needs to approach zero.Knowing that both the number of people P and the services per person S are likely to increase, the reductions can be made only to the energy per service E and the emissions per energy C. The most optimistic estimates of the reduction in E is only about a factor 6, which is not enough to meet the goal. Therefore, we are reliant on the last quantity C to approach zero in order to avoid continued global warming and to allow for sustainable development on a climate-resilient planet. This, in turn, means increased need of a decarbonised energy supply built on technologies such as solar, hydro and wind.The focus in this study is wind power and how it can be modelled in order to ultimately increase its value and allow for large scale implementation in the power system.